README.md, before:

# mobian-recipes

A set of [debos](https://github.com/go-debos/debos) recipes for building a
debian-based image for mobile phones, initially targetting Pine64's PinePhone.

Prebuilt images are available [here](http://images.mobian-project.org/).

The default user is `mobian` with password `1234`.

## Build

To build the image, you need to have `debos` and `bmaptool`. On a debian-based
system, install these dependencies by typing the following command in a terminal:

```
sudo apt install debos bmap-tools
```

If your system isn't debian-based (or if you choose to install `debos` without
using `apt`, which is a terrible idea), please make sure you also install the
following required packages:
- `debootstrap`
- `qemu-system-x86`
- `qemu-user-static`
- `binfmt-support`
- `squashfs-tools-ng` (only required for generating installer images)

Then simply browse to the `mobian-recipes` folder and execute `./build.sh`.

You can use `./build.sh -d` to use the docker version of `debos`.

### Building QEMU image

You can build a QEMU x86_64 image by adding the `-t amd64` (UEFI) or
`-t amd64-legacy` (BIOS) flags to `build.sh`

The resulting files are raw images. You can start qemu like so:

```
qemu-system-x86_64 -drive format=raw,file=<imagefile.img> -enable-kvm -cpu host -vga virtio -m 2048 -smp cores=4 -bios <uefi-firmware>
```
If you have built the BIOS image you can drop the `-bios <uefi-firmware>` flag.
On a gentoo system f.e. the uefi firmware can be found under
`/usr/share/edk2-ovmf/OVMF_CODE.fd`

You may also want to convert the raw image to qcow2 format
and resize it like this:

```
qemu-img convert -f raw -O qcow2 <raw_image.img> <qcow_image.qcow2>
qemu-img resize -f qcow2 <qcow_image.qcow2> +20G
```

## Install

Insert a MicroSD card into your computer, and type the following command:

```
sudo bmaptool copy <image> /dev/<sdcard>
```

or:

```
sudo dd if=<image> of=/dev/<sdcard> bs=1M
```

*Note: Make sure to use your actual SD card device, such as `mmcblk0` instead of
`<sdcard>`.*

**CAUTION: This will format the SD card and erase all its contents!!!**

## Third-party software

The project's Wiki provides
[a list](https://gitlab.com/mobian1/wiki/-/wikis/Software) of software
packages modified or created to work on mobile devices.

## Contributing

If you want to help with this project, please have a look at the
[roadmap](https://gitlab.com/mobian1/wiki/-/wikis/Development-Roadmap) and
[open issues](https://gitlab.com/mobian1/issues).

In case you need more information, feel free to get in touch with the developers
on the Pine64 [forum](https://forum.pine64.org/showthread.php?tid=9016) and/or
[#mobian:matrix.org](https://matrix.to/#/#mobian:matrix.org).

# License

This software is licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
version 3.

Commit message:

Update README on debos version
Clarify that the debos in Debian Buster won't work.

Related: https://gitlab.com/mobian1/mobian-recipes/-/issues/4

README.md, after:

# mobian-recipes

A set of [debos](https://github.com/go-debos/debos) recipes for building a
debian-based image for mobile phones, initially targetting Pine64's PinePhone.

Prebuilt images are available [here](http://images.mobian-project.org/).

The default user is `mobian` with password `1234`.

## Build

To build the image, you need to have `debos` and `bmaptool`. On a debian-based
system, install these dependencies by typing the following command in a terminal:

```
sudo apt install debos bmap-tools
```

Do note that the debos provided in Debian 10 (Buster) is not new enough
(it will error out with "Unknown action: recipe"), the one in Debian
Bullseye/testing works.

If your system isn't debian-based (or if you choose to install `debos` without
using `apt`, which is a terrible idea), please make sure you also install the
following required packages:
- `debootstrap`
- `qemu-system-x86`
- `qemu-user-static`
- `binfmt-support`
- `squashfs-tools-ng` (only required for generating installer images)

Then simply browse to the `mobian-recipes` folder and execute `./build.sh`.

You can use `./build.sh -d` to use the docker version of `debos`.

### Building QEMU image

You can build a QEMU x86_64 image by adding the `-t amd64` (UEFI) or
`-t amd64-legacy` (BIOS) flags to `build.sh`

The resulting files are raw images. You can start qemu like so:

```
qemu-system-x86_64 -drive format=raw,file=<imagefile.img> -enable-kvm -cpu host -vga virtio -m 2048 -smp cores=4 -bios <uefi-firmware>
```
If you have built the BIOS image you can drop the `-bios <uefi-firmware>` flag.
On a gentoo system f.e. the uefi firmware can be found under
`/usr/share/edk2-ovmf/OVMF_CODE.fd`

You may also want to convert the raw image to qcow2 format
and resize it like this:

```
qemu-img convert -f raw -O qcow2 <raw_image.img> <qcow_image.qcow2>
qemu-img resize -f qcow2 <qcow_image.qcow2> +20G
```

## Install

Insert a MicroSD card into your computer, and type the following command:

```
sudo bmaptool copy <image> /dev/<sdcard>
```

or:

```
sudo dd if=<image> of=/dev/<sdcard> bs=1M
```

*Note: Make sure to use your actual SD card device, such as `mmcblk0` instead of
`<sdcard>`.*

**CAUTION: This will format the SD card and erase all its contents!!!**

## Third-party software

The project's Wiki provides
[a list](https://gitlab.com/mobian1/wiki/-/wikis/Software) of software
packages modified or created to work on mobile devices.

## Contributing

If you want to help with this project, please have a look at the
[roadmap](https://gitlab.com/mobian1/wiki/-/wikis/Development-Roadmap) and
[open issues](https://gitlab.com/mobian1/issues).

In case you need more information, feel free to get in touch with the developers
on the Pine64 [forum](https://forum.pine64.org/showthread.php?tid=9016) and/or
[#mobian:matrix.org](https://matrix.to/#/#mobian:matrix.org).

# License

This software is licensed under the terms of the GNU General Public License,
version 3.
